# Mission

## Motivation

Protecting privacy and the empowerment of people to sovereignly handle their
personal data are critical prerequisites for strengthening trust in the digital,
data-driven economy. Studies show that there are significant concerns regarding
cybersecurity and privacy among citizens. These concerns need to be addressed in
order for people to embrace new technologies, especially in the key areas of
artificial intelligence and the Internet of Things.

There is an opportunity for European companies to build sustainable customer
trust in privacy-friendly products and services and to gain significant market
shares in the long term by satisfying the needs security- and privacy-conscious
customers. Trust is also a prerequisite for the exchange of data within the
economy.

Privacy-preserving technologies can play an important role in addressing these
challenges. At present, however, there is still a lack of maturity of such
technologies that stands in the way of their widespread industrial use.

## Goals and Approach

The goal of the _Cloud-Ready Privacy-Preserving Technologies_ (CRYPTECS) project
is to enhance privacy-preserving technologies and make them available
collectively as a cloud platform. This platform will enable industrial
application of privacy-preserving technologies.

The CRYPTECS cloud platform will amalgamate a wide range of technologies (e.g.
Secure Multiparty Computation, Homomorphic Encryption and Differential Privacy)
in the form of reusable cloud services. These services can be combined as needed
to implement solutions with provable end-to-end guarantees regarding security
and privacy.

The scientific and technological challenges lie in improving individual
techniques as well as enabling the composition of different techniques, to
enable the implementation of secure and efficient machine learning and data
analytics services. Integration with cloud native technologies is required to
enable the deployment of sensitive workloads at scale. The CRYPTECS cloud
platform will be validated via the implementation of privacy-friendly
applications from various domains including benchmarking in human resources,
machine learning in automotive scenarios, and threat intelligence in IoT
systems.

## Innovations and Perspectives

The main innovation of the CRYPTECS project is an integrated cloud platform
specifically designed to protect privacy. This will pave the way for seamless
collaboration among companies in _coopetive_ settings. Customers will be more
likely to share their personal data with companies whose services and products
are considered trustworthy. By enabling _end-to-end_ data protection, the
project will create impetus for the unhindered exchange of data in European
science and business for the long-term benefit of the European societies.